Retrieval-Augmented Generation for
Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks
Patrick Lewis†‡, Ethan Perez⋆,
Aleksandra Piktus†, Fabio Petroni†, Vladimir Karpukhin†, Naman Goyal†, Heinrich Küttler†,
Mike Lewis†, Wen-tau Yih†, Tim Rocktäschel†‡, Sebastian Riedel†‡, Douwe Kiela†
†Facebook AI Research; ‡University College London; ⋆New York University;
plewis@fb.com
Abstract
Large pre-trained language models have been shown to store factual knowledge
in their parameters, and achieve state-of-the-art results when ﬁne-tuned on down-
stream NLP tasks. However, their ability to access and precisely manipulate knowl-
edge is still limited, and hence on knowledge-intensive tasks, their performance
lags behind task-speciﬁc architectures. Additionally, providing provenance for their
decisions and updating their world knowledge remain open research problems. Pre-
trained models with a differentiable access mechanism to explicit non-parametric
memory have so far been only investigated for extractive downstream tasks. We
explore a general-purpose ﬁne-tuning recipe for retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) — models which combine pre-trained parametric and non-parametric mem-
ory for language generation. We introduce RAG models where the parametric
memory is a pre-trained seq2seq model and the non-parametric memory is a dense
vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural retriever. We com-
pare two RAG formulations, one which conditions on the same retrieved passages
across the whole generated sequence, and another which can use different passages
per token. We ﬁne-tune and evaluate our models on a wide range of knowledge-
intensive NLP tasks and set the state of the art on three open domain QA tasks,
outperforming parametric seq2seq models and task-speciﬁc retrieve-and-extract
architectures. For language generation tasks, we ﬁnd that RAG models generate
more speciﬁc, diverse and factual language than a state-of-the-art parametric-only
seq2seq baseline.
1
Introduction
Pre-trained neural language models have been shown to learn a substantial amount of in-depth knowl-
edge from data [47]. They can do so without any access to an external memory, as a parameterized
implicit knowledge base [51, 52]. While this development is exciting, such models do have down-
sides: They cannot easily expand or revise their memory, can’t straightforwardly provide insight into
their predictions, and may produce “hallucinations” [38]. Hybrid models that combine parametric
memory with non-parametric (i.e., retrieval-based) memories [20, 26, 48] can address some of these
issues because knowledge can be directly revised and expanded, and accessed knowledge can be
inspected and interpreted. REALM [20] and ORQA [31], two recently introduced models that
combine masked language models [8] with a differentiable retriever, have shown promising results,
arXiv:2005.11401v4  [cs.CL]  12 Apr 2021

The Divine
Comedy (x)
q
Query
Encoder
q(x)
MIPS
pθ
Generator pθ
(Parametric)
Margin-
alize
This 14th century work
is divided into 3
sections: "Inferno",
"Purgatorio" &
"Paradiso"         (y)
End-to-End Backprop through q and pθ
Barack Obama was
born in Hawaii.(x)
Fact Veriﬁcation: Fact Query
supports (y)
Question Generation
Fact Veriﬁcation:
Label Generation
Document
Index
Define "middle ear"(x)
Question Answering:
Question Query
The middle ear includes
the tympanic cavity and
the three ossicles.  (y)
Question Answering:
Answer Generation
Retriever pη
(Non-Parametric)
z4
z3
z2
z1
d(z)
Jeopardy Question
Generation:
Answer Query
Figure 1: Overview of our approach. We combine a pre-trained retriever (Query Encoder + Document
Index) with a pre-trained seq2seq model (Generator) and ﬁne-tune end-to-end. For query x, we use
Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS) to ﬁnd the top-K documents zi. For ﬁnal prediction y, we
treat z as a latent variable and marginalize over seq2seq predictions given different documents.
but have only explored open-domain extractive question answering. Here, we bring hybrid parametric
and non-parametric memory to the “workhorse of NLP,” i.e. sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models.
We endow pre-trained, parametric-memory generation models with a non-parametric memory through
a general-purpose ﬁne-tuning approach which we refer to as retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
We build RAG models where the parametric memory is a pre-trained seq2seq transformer, and the
non-parametric memory is a dense vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural
retriever. We combine these components in a probabilistic model trained end-to-end (Fig. 1). The
retriever (Dense Passage Retriever [26], henceforth DPR) provides latent documents conditioned on
the input, and the seq2seq model (BART [32]) then conditions on these latent documents together with
the input to generate the output. We marginalize the latent documents with a top-K approximation,
either on a per-output basis (assuming the same document is responsible for all tokens) or a per-token
basis (where different documents are responsible for different tokens). Like T5 [51] or BART, RAG
can be ﬁne-tuned on any seq2seq task, whereby both the generator and retriever are jointly learned.
There has been extensive previous work proposing architectures to enrich systems with non-parametric
memory which are trained from scratch for speciﬁc tasks, e.g. memory networks [64, 55], stack-
augmented networks [25] and memory layers [30]. In contrast, we explore a setting where both
parametric and non-parametric memory components are pre-trained and pre-loaded with extensive
knowledge. Crucially, by using pre-trained access mechanisms, the ability to access knowledge is
present without additional training.
Our results highlight the beneﬁts of combining parametric and non-parametric memory with genera-
tion for knowledge-intensive tasks—tasks that humans could not reasonably be expected to perform
without access to an external knowledge source. Our RAG models achieve state-of-the-art results
on open Natural Questions [29], WebQuestions [3] and CuratedTrec [2] and strongly outperform
recent approaches that use specialised pre-training objectives on TriviaQA [24]. Despite these being
extractive tasks, we ﬁnd that unconstrained generation outperforms previous extractive approaches.
For knowledge-intensive generation, we experiment with MS-MARCO [1] and Jeopardy question
generation, and we ﬁnd that our models generate responses that are more factual, speciﬁc, and
diverse than a BART baseline. For FEVER [56] fact veriﬁcation, we achieve results within 4.3% of
state-of-the-art pipeline models which use strong retrieval supervision. Finally, we demonstrate that
the non-parametric memory can be replaced to update the models’ knowledge as the world changes.1
2
Methods
We explore RAG models, which use the input sequence x to retrieve text documents z and use them
as additional context when generating the target sequence y. As shown in Figure 1, our models
leverage two components: (i) a retriever pη(z|x) with parameters η that returns (top-K truncated)
distributions over text passages given a query x and (ii) a generator pθ(yi|x, z, y1:i−1) parametrized
1Code to run experiments with RAG has been open-sourced as part of the HuggingFace Transform-
ers Library [66] and can be found at https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/
examples/rag/. An interactive demo of RAG models can be found at https://huggingface.co/rag/
2

by θ that generates a current token based on a context of the previous i −1 tokens y1:i−1, the original
input x and a retrieved passage z.
To train the retriever and generator end-to-end, we treat the retrieved document as a latent variable.
We propose two models that marginalize over the latent documents in different ways to produce a
distribution over generated text. In one approach, RAG-Sequence, the model uses the same document
to predict each target token. The second approach, RAG-Token, can predict each target token based
on a different document. In the following, we formally introduce both models and then describe the
pη and pθ components, as well as the training and decoding procedure.
2.1
Models
RAG-Sequence Model
The RAG-Sequence model uses the same retrieved document to generate
the complete sequence. Technically, it treats the retrieved document as a single latent variable that
is marginalized to get the seq2seq probability p(y|x) via a top-K approximation. Concretely, the
top K documents are retrieved using the retriever, and the generator produces the output sequence
probability for each document, which are then marginalized,
pRAG-Sequence(y|x) ≈
X
z∈top-k(p(·|x))
pη(z|x)pθ(y|x, z) =
X
z∈top-k(p(·|x))
pη(z|x)
N
Y
i
pθ(yi|x, z, y1:i−1)
RAG-Token Model
In the RAG-Token model we can draw a different latent document for each
target token and marginalize accordingly. This allows the generator to choose content from several
documents when producing an answer. Concretely, the top K documents are retrieved using the
retriever, and then the generator produces a distribution for the next output token for each document,
before marginalizing, and repeating the process with the following output token, Formally, we deﬁne:
pRAG-Token(y|x) ≈
N
Y
i
X
z∈top-k(p(·|x))
pη(z|x)pθ(yi|x, z, y1:i−1)
Finally, we note that RAG can be used for sequence classiﬁcation tasks by considering the target class
as a target sequence of length one, in which case RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token are equivalent.
2.2
Retriever: DPR
The retrieval component pη(z|x) is based on DPR [26]. DPR follows a bi-encoder architecture:
pη(z|x) ∝exp
 d(z)⊤q(x)

d(z) = BERTd(z), q(x) = BERTq(x)
where d(z) is a dense representation of a document produced by a BERTBASE document encoder [8],
and q(x) a query representation produced by a query encoder, also based on BERTBASE. Calculating
top-k(pη(·|x)), the list of k documents z with highest prior probability pη(z|x), is a Maximum Inner
Product Search (MIPS) problem, which can be approximately solved in sub-linear time [23]. We use
a pre-trained bi-encoder from DPR to initialize our retriever and to build the document index. This
retriever was trained to retrieve documents which contain answers to TriviaQA [24] questions and
Natural Questions [29]. We refer to the document index as the non-parametric memory.
2.3
Generator: BART
The generator component pθ(yi|x, z, y1:i−1) could be modelled using any encoder-decoder. We use
BART-large [32], a pre-trained seq2seq transformer [58] with 400M parameters. To combine the input
x with the retrieved content z when generating from BART, we simply concatenate them. BART was
pre-trained using a denoising objective and a variety of different noising functions. It has obtained
state-of-the-art results on a diverse set of generation tasks and outperforms comparably-sized T5
models [32]. We refer to the BART generator parameters θ as the parametric memory henceforth.
2.4
Training
We jointly train the retriever and generator components without any direct supervision on what
document should be retrieved. Given a ﬁne-tuning training corpus of input/output pairs (xj, yj), we
3

minimize the negative marginal log-likelihood of each target, P
j −log p(yj|xj) using stochastic
gradient descent with Adam [28]. Updating the document encoder BERTd during training is costly as
it requires the document index to be periodically updated as REALM does during pre-training [20].
We do not ﬁnd this step necessary for strong performance, and keep the document encoder (and
index) ﬁxed, only ﬁne-tuning the query encoder BERTq and the BART generator.
2.5
Decoding
At test time, RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token require different ways to approximate arg maxy p(y|x).
RAG-Token
The RAG-Token model can be seen as a standard, autoregressive seq2seq genera-
tor with transition probability: p′
θ(yi|x, y1:i−1) = P
z∈top-k(p(·|x)) pη(zi|x)pθ(yi|x, zi, y1:i−1) To
decode, we can plug p′
θ(yi|x, y1:i−1) into a standard beam decoder.
RAG-Sequence
For RAG-Sequence, the likelihood p(y|x) does not break into a conventional per-
token likelihood, hence we cannot solve it with a single beam search. Instead, we run beam search for
each document z, scoring each hypothesis using pθ(yi|x, z, y1:i−1). This yields a set of hypotheses
Y , some of which may not have appeared in the beams of all documents. To estimate the probability
of an hypothesis y we run an additional forward pass for each document z for which y does not
appear in the beam, multiply generator probability with pη(z|x) and then sum the probabilities across
beams for the marginals. We refer to this decoding procedure as “Thorough Decoding.” For longer
output sequences, |Y | can become large, requiring many forward passes. For more efﬁcient decoding,
we can make a further approximation that pθ(y|x, zi) ≈0 where y was not generated during beam
search from x, zi. This avoids the need to run additional forward passes once the candidate set Y has
been generated. We refer to this decoding procedure as “Fast Decoding.”
3
Experiments
We experiment with RAG in a wide range of knowledge-intensive tasks. For all experiments, we use
a single Wikipedia dump for our non-parametric knowledge source. Following Lee et al. [31] and
Karpukhin et al. [26], we use the December 2018 dump. Each Wikipedia article is split into disjoint
100-word chunks, to make a total of 21M documents. We use the document encoder to compute an
embedding for each document, and build a single MIPS index using FAISS [23] with a Hierarchical
Navigable Small World approximation for fast retrieval [37]. During training, we retrieve the top
k documents for each query. We consider k ∈{5, 10} for training and set k for test time using dev
data. We now discuss experimental details for each task.
3.1
Open-domain Question Answering
Open-domain question answering (QA) is an important real-world application and common testbed
for knowledge-intensive tasks [20]. We treat questions and answers as input-output text pairs (x, y)
and train RAG by directly minimizing the negative log-likelihood of answers. We compare RAG to
the popular extractive QA paradigm [5, 7, 31, 26], where answers are extracted spans from retrieved
documents, relying primarily on non-parametric knowledge. We also compare to “Closed-Book
QA” approaches [52], which, like RAG, generate answers, but which do not exploit retrieval, instead
relying purely on parametric knowledge. We consider four popular open-domain QA datasets: Natural
Questions (NQ) [29], TriviaQA (TQA) [24]. WebQuestions (WQ) [3] and CuratedTrec (CT) [2]. As
CT and WQ are small, we follow DPR [26] by initializing CT and WQ models with our NQ RAG
model. We use the same train/dev/test splits as prior work [31, 26] and report Exact Match (EM)
scores. For TQA, to compare with T5 [52], we also evaluate on the TQA Wiki test set.
3.2
Abstractive Question Answering
RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive
text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting,
we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.1 [43]. The task consists of questions, ten gold passages
retrieved from a search engine for each question, and a full sentence answer annotated from the
retrieved passages. We do not use the supplied passages, only the questions and answers, to treat
4

MSMARCO as an open-domain abstractive QA task. MSMARCO has some questions that cannot be
answered in a way that matches the reference answer without access to the gold passages, such as
“What is the weather in Volcano, CA?” so performance will be lower without using gold passages.
We also note that some MSMARCO questions cannot be answered using Wikipedia alone. Here,
RAG can rely on parametric knowledge to generate reasonable responses.
3.3
Jeopardy Question Generation
To evaluate RAG’s generation abilities in a non-QA setting, we study open-domain question gen-
eration. Rather than use questions from standard open-domain QA tasks, which typically consist
of short, simple questions, we propose the more demanding task of generating Jeopardy questions.
Jeopardy is an unusual format that consists of trying to guess an entity from a fact about that entity.
For example, “The World Cup” is the answer to the question “In 1986 Mexico scored as the ﬁrst
country to host this international sports competition twice.” As Jeopardy questions are precise,
factual statements, generating Jeopardy questions conditioned on their answer entities constitutes a
challenging knowledge-intensive generation task.
We use the splits from SearchQA [10], with 100K train, 14K dev, and 27K test examples. As
this is a new task, we train a BART model for comparison. Following [67], we evaluate using the
SQuAD-tuned Q-BLEU-1 metric [42]. Q-BLEU is a variant of BLEU with a higher weight for
matching entities and has higher correlation with human judgment for question generation than
standard metrics. We also perform two human evaluations, one to assess generation factuality, and
one for speciﬁcity. We deﬁne factuality as whether a statement can be corroborated by trusted external
sources, and speciﬁcity as high mutual dependence between the input and output [33]. We follow
best practice and use pairwise comparative evaluation [34]. Evaluators are shown an answer and two
generated questions, one from BART and one from RAG. They are then asked to pick one of four
options—quuestion A is better, question B is better, both are good, or neither is good.
3.4
Fact Veriﬁcation
FEVER [56] requires classifying whether a natural language claim is supported or refuted by
Wikipedia, or whether there is not enough information to decide. The task requires retrieving
evidence from Wikipedia relating to the claim and then reasoning over this evidence to classify
whether the claim is true, false, or unveriﬁable from Wikipedia alone. FEVER is a retrieval problem
coupled with an challenging entailment reasoning task. It also provides an appropriate testbed for
exploring the RAG models’ ability to handle classiﬁcation rather than generation. We map FEVER
class labels (supports, refutes, or not enough info) to single output tokens and directly train with
claim-class pairs. Crucially, unlike most other approaches to FEVER, we do not use supervision on
retrieved evidence. In many real-world applications, retrieval supervision signals aren’t available, and
models that do not require such supervision will be applicable to a wider range of tasks. We explore
two variants: the standard 3-way classiﬁcation task (supports/refutes/not enough info) and the 2-way
(supports/refutes) task studied in Thorne and Vlachos [57]. In both cases we report label accuracy.
4
Results
4.1
Open-domain Question Answering
Table 1 shows results for RAG along with state-of-the-art models. On all four open-domain QA
tasks, RAG sets a new state of the art (only on the T5-comparable split for TQA). RAG combines
the generation ﬂexibility of the “closed-book” (parametric only) approaches and the performance of
"open-book" retrieval-based approaches. Unlike REALM and T5+SSM, RAG enjoys strong results
without expensive, specialized “salient span masking” pre-training [20]. It is worth noting that RAG’s
retriever is initialized using DPR’s retriever, which uses retrieval supervision on Natural Questions
and TriviaQA. RAG compares favourably to the DPR QA system, which uses a BERT-based “cross-
encoder” to re-rank documents, along with an extractive reader. RAG demonstrates that neither a
re-ranker nor extractive reader is necessary for state-of-the-art performance.
There are several advantages to generating answers even when it is possible to extract them. Docu-
ments with clues about the answer but do not contain the answer verbatim can still contribute towards
a correct answer being generated, which is not possible with standard extractive approaches, leading
5